# Getting and Cleaning Data Project

The purpose of the project is to prepare a tidy dataset that can be used for later analysis starting from a collection of raw datasets. The raw datasets used are created from data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description of the data is available at the site where the data was obtained: 

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

while the data used for the project can be found at: 

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 


To generate the tidy dataset an R script is used. The r script called run_analysis.R does the following:
 
* Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
* Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
* Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
* Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive activity names. 
* Creates a second, independent tidy data set called with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
* Store the independent tidy data set in a csv file called tydy_dataset.csv


## run_analysis.R

To function properly the **run_analysis.R** script expects to find the directory structure and the listed files as per below diagram (it should be easy since it is the directory structure generated by unzipping the original dataset: the run_analysis.R script should be stored in the *UCI HAR Dataset* folder):

```
+——UCI HAR Dataset
   +——test
      +——subject_test.txt
      +——X_test.txt
      +——Y_test.txt
   +——train
      +——subject_train.txt
      +——X_train.txt
      +——Y_train.txt  
   +——activity_labels.txt
   +——features.txt
   +——run_analysis.R 
```

To generate the tidy data set the script will:

* read the train and test raw data stored in the respective folders
* merge appropriately the data in an single dataframe
* select the columns of the data frame where the required data for the analysis (mean and standard deviations) are stored
* will aggregate the data in a way to have the AVERAGE of all required variables computed
* will store the tidy dataset as a comma separated values CSV file in the current folder with the name tidy_dataset.csv

The tidy data set is formed by 180 observations and 68 variables has appropriate labels describing the column variables and the activity done by each subject (observations).
